Point Groups: Isotopic Traces and Envelopes

  A "trace" is any region or set of points defined by the user.
After a trace is created, points can be added to or removed from it
and many separate traces will exist simultaneously. When points have
been grouped as a trace, they all become the same color. When the whole
graph is viewed at once every trace is colored differently from its
neighbors so that it is obvious where the traces are.  

  When points are selected as part of a trace using the brush, only the
ones visible at the current detail level are counted. So the selection
is not only of a region but of a region in the *visible* data set. So,
points that are only visible at a higher level of detail will not be
part of the trace. This behavior is important and by design.

  The user can use a rectangle, which does include all points that are
in the area, visible or not.

  Further up the hierarchy, an envelope is a set of traces. There can be
any number of envelopes containing traces just like traces contain
points. The user will switch between envelope edit mode and trace edit
mode using buttons on the screen or keyboard shortcuts. As in trace edit
mode, every envelope will have a different color so you can see where
each envelope is.

  The method of point selection for traces and envelopes is a paintbrush
that highlights and paints points near to the mouse cursor on-screen.

  The mzTree knows which points are in what trace and what traces are in
what envelopes. Each point has a trace associated to it and a mapping
table is maintained between traces and envelopes as well. The client
is aware of these relationships and communicates changes to the server
as the user makes selections. So that the server is not
contacted too often, the tracing system can queue updates to the server
and send many updates at once (batching them). The server update can
happen every several seconds or when the user has not clicked for a time.

  An undo system has been implemented on the server.


DETAILS AND SPECIFICS

MODES and KEYBOARD/BUTTONS assignments
Modes: trace, envelope, or neither
For viewing - right click always rotates

In the trace/envelope modes:
  "New" button - activates a new trace/envelope
  "Select" button - next click on the screen selects trace/envelope to add to
  Click/drag: add, Ctrl + Click/drag: remove
